# Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)

## Purchasing Options

On-Demand, paying by the second

Reserved Instances, always available - much cheaper

Scheduled Instances - always available on recurring schedule

Spot Instances - request unused EC2 instances, which can lower costs significantly, generally cheap though not always. Bid on them. Can actually be more if youre not careful.

Dedicated Instances by the hour for instances on dedicated hardware (single tenant)

Dedicated Hosts - pay for a physical host that is fully dedicated to running your instances

## Instance Types

General Purpose - 

Compute Optimized - web-servers, batch processing, mmo gaming, video encoding

Memory Optimized

GPU/ Accelerated Computing - 3D application streaming, machine learning, video encoding server-side graphics

Storage Optimized

## EC2 Storage Options

Elastic Block Store 
- most common
- Replicated within availability zone
- EBS volumes attached at instance launch are deleted when instance terminated
Instance Store
- Pysically attached to host host server
- Data not lost when OS is rebooted
- Data lost when harddrive fails, instance is stopped, instance is terminated
- Don't rely on for long sterm data
- You cannot attach and reattach instances

## Remote Options

Requires AWS access keys, secret key and access key

Linux
- ssh
- mac or linux use console
- windows requires ssh or BASH

Windows
- Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)

## Container Services

ECS for short

Using EC2 service to run docker containers.

Docker containers wrap up software in a file system that gives it everything that it needs to run.

This gauruntees that it always run the same regardless of environment.

Containers can grow pretty big, the container itself and then the depencies all add up quickly. You may want to use a cut down version of linux.

Maybe use something like Code Pipeline to auto deploy.

You could use CodeCommit or Github. Auto create a Docker container. Use Elastic Conatiner Registry to push to EC2 and then use EC2 Instances to auto scale.
