# S3 Foundations

## S3 Terminology

Bucket
- container object for objects on S3
- total volume of data and number of objects are unlimited
- bucket names are unique
  - 3 - 63 chars long
  - cannot be ip address
  - be lowercase
  - must not container uppercase chars or underscores

Objects
- entities stored in a bucket
- 0 bytes to a max of 5 tb
- largest object upload is 5gb
multi-part upload for > 5gb uploads

## Security

by default everything is private

can be modified by IAM roles
can have bucket policies applied to the bucket.
ACL (access control lists) applied to bucket or object level

## Storage Classes

Standard
- 99.9999999999% durability
- 99.99% availability
- Supports SSL encryption in transit and at rest
- Lifecycle Management

Standard infrequent access (IA)
- same as standard
- lower per GB price
- retrieval fee

One Zone IA
- Lower GB storage price
- per GB retrieval fee

Reduced Redundancy Storage
- 99.99% durability and 99.99% availability
- being deprecated
- old

Amazon Glacier
- archiving solution as a service
- lowest cost
- high durability across 3 availability zones
- 3 retrieval options
  - expedited ( 1 - 5 minutes )
  - standard ( 3 - 5 hours )
  - bulk ( 5 - 12 hours )
- cost vary depending on retrieval method

## Lifecycle Management

enables you to migrate old data across to Glacier

allows for object deletion after expiry time.

Always can be restored from Glacier back to S3.

Accounting records that can be kept for tax purposes but dont need to be readily available.

## Versioning

Preservers copies versions of objects on bucket.

Can recover deleted objects.

## Other notes

If you want to un-delete a versioned object you just delete the delete marker.

You can delete all previous versions of an object and even set rules to migrate old objects to Glacier.
