# Databases

## RDS

Managed relational database service.

Amazon, Aurora, MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL and PostgreSQL.

Container Service - handles routine database tasks such as provisioning, patching, backup, recovery, failure detection and repair.

Shared responsibility - aws takes more responsibility for running and maintaining.

## RDS Backup

User intiiated DB snapshots.

Automated DB backups to S3.
- you can specify the time
Encryption of db and snapshots at rest available.

## Multi Availability Zone

Multi AZ recommended for production apps.

App should also be located in multiple AZ's

available for all db types

allows failover to standby

instances will connect into a db endpoint, with multi availability, the standby instance is a synchronously copied instance of the master db.

(master and slave)

If a master goes down and we still have traffic setup, then route 53 will point the endpoint to the standby instance and vice versa.

Our previous standby endpoint then gets promoted to the master database. Then the one that comes back online, replication will start from the new master to the new standby (slave) db.



## DynamoDB

NoSQL database.

Consists of:

- tables
- attributes
- items
- partition key and optional sort key (for fast access)

Secondary Indexes
- efficient access to data
- two types
  - local secondary index - same partition key as the base table but diff sort key
  - global secondary index - btoh diff partition and sort key

## Neptune

Graph db solution.

Purpose-built to store and navigate relationships.

Uses graph structure
- nodes (entities)
- edges (relationships)
- properties (represent and store data)

Gremlin and SPARQL languages for graph query

Journalists were able to look for criminal banking activity using a graph db.

## Redshift

Fully managed big data warehouse service.

Based on Postgresql.

Designed for OLAP online analytics processing. BI applications

redshift cluster consists of nodes, a leader node and one or more compute nodes.

Choice of size and type for nodes.

## ElasticCache

In memory data store service. 

Low latency data access for popular content.

Redis or Memcached engine.

We could setup a lambda to copy our popular content in the elastic cache. If it's there we could deliver it back to the EC2 instance quickly. Quicker than the normal DynamoDB could retrieve it.


