# VPC

AWS -> regions -> availability zones

availability zones are physically separated from one another

distributing across AZ's keep our uptime consistent.

Number of AZ per region varies.

We can create VPCs in a region that spans multiple availability zones.

Every time an account on aws is created a default VPC is created in each region. We can create more VPCs.

VPC contains a subnet. We need to have at least 1 subnet to launch an EC2 instance. We can have subnets in multiple availability zones.

## About AWS VPC



## Connecting to a VPC

We need to have an Internet Gateway for the VPC to connect to the internet.

We need to create a route from that into a subnet.

We can create a VPN that consists of a VPG on the AWS side and a Customer Gateway on the customer side.

The VPG is the VPN concentrator, and the Customer Gateway is the physical connection on the customer side.

We also have AWS direct connect that is a physical connection to AWS. Normally used by very large organizations.

## EC2 Internet Connectivity

Requirements for connectivity:

1. EC2 instance has a public IP address.
2. VPC has an internet gateway.
3. Route defined in a routing table from subnet to IGW.

## VPC Security

Security Groups
- firewalls at the instance levels
- statefull - allows return traffic from a request that was allowed in
Network Access Control Lists (ACLs) 
- firewall at the subnet level
- network ACLs as second layer of defense
- Stateless
- operate all instances within a subnet (just because a request allowed in, doesnt mean the return is allowed in again)
Flow Logs
- capture information as CloudWatch logs


