# Elastic Beanstalk

AWS allows you to deploy without worrying about the underlying architecture.

Can create highly available and fault tolerant architectures.

First launched in 2011.
Quickly deploy and manage applications on environments.
Automatically handle capaticty provisioning, load balancing, scaling and application health monitoring.

New versions can be uploaded through the console or CLI.

Application deployed can be:
- Docker container
- NODe, Java, .NEt, PHP, Ruby, Python & Go
- Apache, Nginx, etc...

Create Appplication -> Upload Version -> Launch Environment -> Manage Environment

Advantage of EBS: fault tolerant and high available architecture.

The aws cloud is divided up into regions and availability zones.

If a zone goes down, the architecture will still continue to operate and serve requests. The VPC will span both availability zones by having instances in both, in case one goes down.

To respond to spikes in demand, we can launch our instances using an autoscaling group as availability goes up/down.

Finally, to receive/distribute requests, we need an elastic load balancer.

## Deployment Options

### All at once
 architecture will be down during deployment
### Rolling
 deploy application to a single batch at a time, 2 instances out of 20 at a time until theyre all deployed
### Immutable
 will deploy another 20 (or x #) instances while deploy is happening
### Blue/Green
 two environments running under one elastic beanstalk application. Dev/Production




