# AWS Compute Services

## Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)
Launch server instances.

## EC2 Autoscaling
Automatically scale EC2 capacity up or down. Launching or terminating instances based on demand.

## Amazon Lightsail
Launch virtual servers in the cloud.

## Elastic Container Service
Container management for docker. Scalable, containers managed clusters.

## AWS Lambda
Serverless

Deploying a webserver.

We have a VPC inside AWS. "Our own private space" inside the AWS service.

What happens if a single EC2 instance becomes overwhelmed by demand? 
- vertical scaling : teardown the instance and create a bigger instance. Takes time to bring down the server when going up or down. Need to scale up and down.
- horizontal scaling : add more instances as demand goes up. Terminate as demand goes down. Continuity of application is good. One problem: multiple endpoints for the webserver. Not practical for customers. 

How to distribute requests in a horizontally scaled architecure?
Elastic Load Balancer. Distributes traffic coming in to an available EC2 instance. Balances load across all EC2 instances. 

EC2 instances file "health checks" with the load balancer to stop traffic coming to that instance.

Can perform health check on the instances.

## CloudFront

Delivers your content to over 100 edge locations across the globe.
Provides protection against DDOS attacks.

## Virtual Private Cloud
Logical separation of services into a virtual private network. Provides security.

## Direct Connect
High speed, direct connection to AWS cloud. When standard internet connection is not adequate.

## Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)
Balances high traffic and availability zones. Allows you to achieve fault tolerance and high availabilty. Bypass unhealthy instances.

## Route 53 (DNS)
Handle direct traffic to your backend, domain manger.

## API Gateway
Handles tasks involved in accepted and processing concurrent API calls. It's a serverless service.

What happens if an availability zone goes down? You need to have architecture distributed across other availability zones.

We can launch EC2 instances in multiple availability zones. The ELB will continue to deliver traffic to the healthy availability zone.

We would like to put a Wordpress server somewhere that it can be delivered to a bunch of users in a bunch of different locations.

CloudFront (content delivery network) will spread the content needed across the entire world to decrease latency in loading static content.

Dynamic content can still be delivered at scale separately from static content.

The CloudFront names are complicated so we use route 53 to manage domain names.

AWS Direct Connect can provide a completely private connection to the cloud without going through load balancer or cloudfront or route 53.
