# AWS Developer Tools

## Cloud9
IDE in the cloud. Developer Associate will use this.

## CodeStar
Makes it easy to develop and deploy Amazon apps. Built in Project Management.

## X-Ray
Easier to debug and analyse applications.

## CodeCommit
A git repository.

## CodePipeline
CI and CD (CICD)
Build test and deploy code.

## CodeBuild
Compiles code

## CodeDeploy
Automates software deployments to a variety of compute services.

Developer Associate pathway will use a lot of these services.

# Media

AWS recently acquired Elemental, a media company.

## Elemental MediaConvert
Converting formats for ondemand content

## Elemental MediaPackage
DRM and distribution

## Elemental MediaTailor
Targeting ads.

## ElementalMediaLive
For video streams for delivery to tvs and devices.

## ElementalMediaStore
Storage optimized for media.

## Kinesis Video Streams
Streams video to connected devices through the cloud.

# Mobile Services

## AWS Mobile Hub
Allows you to easily configure your aws services for mobile applications in one place.

## Device Farm
Testing service for different devices.

## AppSync
GraphQL backend for mobile and web applications.

# AWS Migration Services

## Application Discovery Service
Discovers data to help migration.

## Database Migration Service
Orchestrates migration of databases to the cloud. Can handle from oracle to aurora, etc.

## Server Migration Service
Automate migration of thousands of on premise workloads onto the aws cloud. Reduces cost and minimizes downtime for migrations.

## AWS Snowball
Portable petabyte scale data storage device. Used to migrate data from on premise environments onto the cloud.

# Other

## WorkDocs
Fully managed file collab and management service. View and provide feedback for over 35 file types including microsoft and pdf.

## WorkMail
mail and calendar service

## Amazon Chime
Meeting service, video conferencing.

## WorkSpaces
Desktop as a service

## AppStream
Secure application streaming service. Can stream desktop apps to an html5 browser.

## AWS IoT
Cloud platform that lets devices securely interact with cloud apps and other devices.

## FreeRTOS
Microcontroller for devices.

## Greengrass
Software that lets you run local AWS lambda functions, messaging, sync, etc on IoT devices. Extends AWS services to devices while still using cloud based capabilities.

## GameLift
Deploy, scale and manage dedicated game service.

## Lumberyard
Game development environment. Cross platform AAA engine on the cloud.


