# AWS Orgnaizations, IAM and CloudTrail

## shared responsibility model
What does that mean (for security?)
AWS is responsibility for the security of the cloud but the customer is responsible for what you put into the cloud.

You have to be responsible for making sure the traffic is secure. You have to be responsible for the linux/windows OS configuration is safe.

Users accessing your account have "least privileges" given to them.

Shared responsibility model varies according to what service we're using. 

AWS takes more control over that service, not like an EC2, with something like S3.

Your responsibility reduces with each layer of "convenience".

Container services like RDS, EMR and Elastic Beanstalk. They will look after more, so the responsibility shifts to AWS more.

We're responsible for network controls, firewall rules, platform-level security, separate from IAM. E.G. Postgres user security and access.

Abstracted Services: S3, Glacier (data lake), DynamoDB, AWS Lambda, Simple Queue Service, Simple Email Service

## IAM and IAM policies

How do we manage users of the application? Clients? Internal folks?

IAM allows the management of individuals and groups of individual access to your resources. You grant users permissions through identities.

It has granular permissions. Very fine grained control over what they can do and under what conditions.

- Provides secure access on EC2 applications to access resources.
- An identity federation can grant access outside of aws or the app in general.
- Payment Card Industry (PCI) and Data Security Standard (DSS) Compliance.
 
policies grant fine grained control.

By default a user can't access anything in the account.

Define permissions through policies.

Policy:
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Action": "dynamodb:*",  <-- access to all dynamodb services
  "Resource":"arn:aws:dynamodb:us-west-2:121231312312312:table/Books"
}

When someone first joins the organization you need to set them up as a user on your account.

## users and groups of users

Users consist of a name and credentials

They are users, a personal service that are accessing your account.

Identify by a "friendly name" Bill

or a ARN (amazon resource name) arn:aws:iam::account-ID-with-hyphens:user/Bill

Unique Identifier which is returned only when using the API, SDKs, tools for windows or AWS CLI to create user

Credentials can be associated to a User
- console password - url link to login to the console
- access keys (access key ID and a secret access key), max 2

Never use root user to access resources unless absolutely essential. Create admin users with required permissions. Always enable multi-factor authentication of the root user.


password policy: we can customize a bunch of things about the password like length, ttl etc.

Sign in URL, it's different for the root user.

When sign in as an IAM user, you have a url link to your account.

You can create an account alias Your_Alias.signin.aws.amazon.com/console

We can also group users and IAM groups. When a user is put into a group they will assume the permissions of that group.

Groups cannot be nested. They can only contain users, not other groups.

Roles can be assumed by users or resources.

Allow EC2 instances to access other AWS resources.

Grant access to resources to users in another aws account.

Can be used to allow users to temporarily assume a role with least privilege access to critical resources: Identity Federation:
- AWS Cognito
- OAUTH
- Enterprise SSO with LDAP or ActiveDirectory

You won't be able to create IAM groups for hundreds of thousands of users. You could use an external service to authenticate them and give them temporary access to a role.

Using Cognito Pool is the preferred way to deal with that.

# AWS Organizations

Allows multiple aws accounts used by an organization to be part of an Organizational Unit (OU).

Service Control Policies (SCP) allow whitelisting or blacklisting or services within the OU.

A blacklisted service will not be available even if the IAM user or group policy allows it.

Benefits: centrally managing policies, control access globally, automate aws account creating (wow), consolidate billing for multiple aws accounts

## AWS CloudTrai

When we use the management console and we access a service, an API call is made to aws to access the service. Same with the SDK.

CloudTrail logs the calls. Stores them in an S3 bucket to be analyzed later on.

You can setup an SNS topic that can alert you to problems if they occur. You can have all the firewalls you want but what happens when you have an attack from within your organization? Then you use CloudTrail to find where the malicious behavior is.

## IAM best practices

Need to understand for the exam.

Lock away aws account root user access keys (dont use them)
Create an individual IAM user
Use groups to assign permissions to users
use AWS defined policies to assign permissions when possible
Grant Least Privilege (only give people access to what they need)
Use Access Levels to review IAM Permissions (list, read, write or permissions management)
Configure a Strong Password Policy for Your Users
Enable Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for privileged users
Delegate by Using Roles instead of sharing credentials
Use Roles for Applications that run on amazon ec2 instances
Rotate credentials regularly
remove unecessary credentials
use policy conditions for extra security (eg MFA login)
Monitor activity in your aws account (eg CloudTrail)
